README.rst, before:

Splat!
======

Quick intro
-----------

**Splat is a programme** to generate some audio data which you may call music.
It's written in Python to make it easy to use, and all the crucial processing
parts are implemented in C for fast number crunching.  It's distributed under
the terms of the **GNU LGPL v3** so you remain a free individual when you use
it.

**Splat is not a programme** to generate **live** audio in real time, at least
not at the moment.  So it's better suited to the studio than to the stage.

To install it, clone the repository and run::

    python setup.py install

Then to generate the included piece called "Dew Drop" with an optional reverb::

    python dew_drop.py reverb

This creates ``dew_drop.wav`` which you can now play with your favourite
player.


Beep
----

Here's a very small **Splat** example which creates a 440Hz sound for 1 second,
with fade-in and fade-out:

.. code-block:: python

    import splat.gen
    import splat.filters

    gen = splat.gen.SineGenerator()
    gen.filters = [splat.filters.linear_fade]
    gen.run(0.0, 1.0, 440.0)
    gen.frag.save("A440.wav")


`verdigris.mu <http://verdigris.mu>`_
-------------------------------------

You can find some splats as well as other music, software and electronics
things on `verdigris.mu <http://verdigris.mu>`_.  Some experimental splats can
also be heard on `SoundCloud <https://soundcloud.com/verdigrix/sets/splat-1>`_.
You can send your creations or reactions to `info@verdigris.mu
<mailto:info@verdigris.mu>`_.

Download the `manual in PDF format <http://verdigris.mu/public/doc/Splat.pdf>`_
to start using **Splat**.

Commit message:

README.rst: also mention source archives

README.rst, after:

Splat!
======

Quick intro
-----------

**Splat is a programme** to generate some audio data which you may call music.
It's written in Python to make it easy to use, and all the crucial processing
parts are implemented in C for fast number crunching.  It's distributed under
the terms of the **GNU LGPL v3** so you remain a free individual when you use
it.

**Splat is not a programme** to generate **live** audio in real time, at least
not at the moment.  So it's better suited to the studio than to the stage.

To install it, clone the repository or download and extract a source archive,
then run::

    python setup.py install

Then to generate the included piece called "Dew Drop" with an optional reverb::

    python dew_drop.py reverb

This creates ``dew_drop.wav`` which you can now play with your favourite
player.


Beep
----

Here's a very small **Splat** example which creates a 440Hz sound for 1 second,
with fade-in and fade-out:

.. code-block:: python

    import splat.gen
    import splat.filters

    gen = splat.gen.SineGenerator()
    gen.filters = [splat.filters.linear_fade]
    gen.run(0.0, 1.0, 440.0)
    gen.frag.save("A440.wav")


`verdigris.mu <http://verdigris.mu>`_
-------------------------------------

You can find some splats as well as other music, software and electronics
things on `verdigris.mu <http://verdigris.mu>`_.  Some experimental splats can
also be heard on `SoundCloud <https://soundcloud.com/verdigrix/sets/splat-1>`_.
You can send your creations or reactions to `info@verdigris.mu
<mailto:info@verdigris.mu>`_.

Download the `manual in PDF format <http://verdigris.mu/public/doc/Splat.pdf>`_
to start using **Splat**.
